= HCTS Dialup Server

This project's a chef repository for a dialup satellite email server I've put
together for a local organization.

The rest of this README is a handover document that you probably won't find
useful or interesting.

== Bootstrapping

I've given you an installation CD you can use. If anything ever happens to it,
you can either burn another with the ISO image in hcts-data/Server or, if
needed, fully re-create it from http://github.com/hcts/bootstrap.

Boot the installation CD, typing "install" at the "boot:" prompt.

Through the installation process, enter these values:

 IP address: 192.168.0.1
 Netmask: 255.255.255.0
 Router: 192.168.0.254
 Name servers: 192.168.0.254
 Hostname: moshi (be sure to user a lowercase "m" so that backups can be restored!)
 Domain name: hcts.org
 Full name for the new user: HCTS
 Username for your account: hcts

Then, reboot the system. The bootloader on the CD may have trouble with this,
so you may need to either momentarily remove the CD or place the hard disk
before the CD-ROM drive in the boot sequence in order for the system to boot
properly. (If you do remove the CD, you will need to re-insert it before
running `chef-solo` below.)

Log in as hcts, and:

 # Become root.
 sudo -i

 # Download the chef recipes.
 git clone git://github.com/hcts/chef-repo.git /srv/chef

 # Configure chef attributes. (Mostly just passwords.)
 #
 # As you use the following commands to edit the attributes file, you'll be
 # changing the values for:
 #
 # - mysql.server_root_password:         any value will do
 # - hectic.db.password:                 any value will do
 # - postfix.default_relayhost_password: the smtp password for hcts@elct.org
 # - postfix.root_mail_to:               hcts (or whatever user you created above)
 # - samba.password:                     the password for connecting to the samba share
 #
 cd /etc/chef
 cp /srv/chef/config/attributes.json .
 nano attributes.json

 # Run chef.
 chef-solo

Once you've done that, you can schedule chef-solo to run every hour:

 # When editing this file, you'll just be removing the hash mark from the
 # beginning of the last line, the one that starts "0 * * * * root".
 #
 nano /etc/cron.d/chef

Then, if you're restoring data from a backup:

 # Plug in the USB stick or external hard drive. You will see some messages on
 # the screen including text like [sdb]. Take note of the precise text -- for
 # example, is it "sdb" or "sdc" -- and use those letters, followed by a 1, in
 # the `mount` command below.
 #
 mkdir -p /media/backup
 mount /dev/sdb1 /media/backup
 rsnapshot-restore /media/backup/latest.tar.gz
 umount /media/backup

And that's it!

== Add More Users

You'll want to make separate user accounts for your staff to have Remote
Desktop access to the system. (See more information about Remote Desktop
below.)

To add these users, and to give them permission to use sudo, use these
commands:

 sudo -i
 adduser henry
 adduser henry admin
 adduser noel
 adduser noel admin
 #
 # ...and so on.
 #
 # Note that the "adduser ... admin" commands are only necessary if the user
 # needs to use sudo from time to time. If you're not sure, it's safer not to
 # run this command until you need to.

== Logfiles

I've written a tool called `bracken` that functions like a filtering version of
`tail -f`. Bracken reads its configuration from /etc/bracken.rb.

To run it, simply use the following command:

 bracken

Bracken will continue to tail the logfiles listed in /etc/bracken.rb, even
after each morning's logfile rotation.

== Mail

You can manage customer mail accounts at http://192.168.0.1. There is no longer
a separate login for this application; just use your unix username and
password.

When you need to get into a mailbox to remove or forward large messages at a
customer's request, you can use a wrapper script `virtual_alpine` like this:

 virtual_alpine henry

If you would like to email all the elct.org customers, you may do so at
customers@elct.org.local.

== Chef

All the important system configuration files, including /etc/fetchmailrc and
/etc/ppp/pap-secrets, are automatically generated when chef runs. Chef is
currently set in /etc/cron.d/chef to run every hour.

ANY CHANGES YOU MAKE TO THESE FILES WILL BE ERASED THE NEXT TIME CHEF RUNS! The
proper way to change them is to add, edit, and delete customers via the web
interface at http://192.168.0.1/. Chef then reads this database to generate the
appropriate configuration files.

So, if you add a new customer, it can take up to an hour (for the next chef
run) until that customer can dial in and check mail.

From time to time, I may make updates to the chef cookbooks. I'll notify you if
I do, of course! Often, I may not even need to come in to perform the updates.
Instead, you'll just run the following commands:

 sudo -i
 cd /srv/chef
 git pull origin master
 chef-solo

== Samba

There is one main share, named "samba" and accessed with username "samba". The
contents of this share are included in the rsnapshot backups.

== Backups

Every few hours, rsnapshot runs to take a backup of the important data on the
system. See /etc/cron.d/rsnapshot and /etc/rsnapshot.conf.

Backups are placed under /var/backups/rsnapshot.

You can see the disk space used by all the backups with the following command:

 sudo rsnapshot du

A tarball of the latest backup is always available under /var/lib/samba/backup,
which you can reach from other machines as the samba share "backup".

To restore a backup from the hard disk:

 sudo rsnapshot-restore /var/backups/rsnapshot/hourly.0

To restore a backup from a tarball:

 sudo rsnapshot-restore /media/UDISK/latest.tar.gz

== Squid HTTP Proxy

For the radio staff, there is an HTTP proxy server running at 192.168.0.1:3128.

== Remote Desktop Access

Rather than making a VNC connection to the server, you can simply use the
Windows "Remote Desktop Connection" tool in Start -> All Programs ->
Accessories -> Remote Desktop Connection. (The Remote Desktop service will be
started automatically when the system boots, so you won't have to start it from
a console session as before.)

Your session will persist across connections, so you won't lose your window
positions or open programs.

You'll probably want to save your connection settings in an RDP file on your
Windows desktop, to make it easy to reconnect in the future. Click the "Options
>>" button in the initial Remote Desktop Connection dialog for more.
